                           -------- Opera Help --------

---- General ---- 

     In most cases, gray and other colored areas show information 
for the operator, white areas allow operator interaction and 
commands.  Click on any traffic light to get a frame with more 
information.  Right click on any extra frame to make it go away.


---- "Initialize" ---- 

     The "Initialize" button makes a frame showing a list of 
available ivex key names to be used to initialize the correlator 
hardware.  Left click on the appropriate key name to transfer it
to the active (white) box at the top.  Or double left click on 
the appropriate key name to transfer it and also send it, with 
default correlator and station-unit initialization, to Conductor.
Or left click in this top box and type an ivex key name.  

     The buttons down the left side of this frame refer to 
the correlator (C) and station units to be initialized:  Colored 
and depressed means to initialize.  Left click on any button to 
change its state.  Return or Enter in the top white box to send 
all this to Conductor.

     Right click in this "Initialize Ivex" frame to close it.  
Click again on "Initialize" to resurrect it.


---- "Station Units" ---- 

     The traffic lights under "Station Units" show the status of
the numbered station units and their tape drives.  All dark means
that the tape drive is powered off, disconnected, nonexistent, or
not initialized.  A red light means some error such as unable to 
carry out the last command.  Yellow means no tape mounted or no 
vacuum, which prevents tape motion.  Green means that the tape 
is moving or able to move.  On the green light, > means moving 
forward, < means moving in reverse, and | means stopped.  This 
information is updated periodically.

     Click on a "Station Units" traffic light, regardless of its
color, to see a frame with more information about the
corresponding tape drive.  This frame, labeled "Station Unit #"
with # a number, also permits commanding the tape drive to
perform certain operations.

     In the "Station Unit #" frame, light-gray areas show
information; white areas contain potential commands to the tape
drive.  Values in boxes with ridges are periodically updated from
the station unit.  Yellow areas show quantities that are
temporarily in non-standard states.  Red shows errors.

     The top lines of a "Station Unit #" frame contain error
messages, if any, for this tape drive.  If a valid bar code is
known, it will be in the box labeled "VSN:" for volume serial 
number.  The same is true for the feet of tape on the upper and 
lower reels, the commanded tape speed in inches/second (ips), 
the tape footage counter, the pass number, the head position in 
microns, and the response, if any, to the last manual command.

     Command the tape speed within the permitted range (0 to 330
ips) by typing into the "SetSpeed:" box.  A left mouse click in
this box enables typing therein, and Return or Enter activates
the command.  "Go to" works the same way to position the tape to
a prescribed footage.

     Control tape motion by left clicking the buttons in the next
row.  Fast reverse ("<< FR") and fast forward ("FF >>") operate
at maximum speed, 330 ips.  Play (either "< Play" or "Play >")
operates at 135 ips or at whatever speed was last commanded in
the "SetSpeed:" box.  "Unload" causes the tape to fast reverse to 
the load position and spin off onto the source reel to allow the 
operator to mount a different tape.  "Release" causes the tape 
drive to drop vacuum at its present position.  Details about 
tape-drive operation are documented elsewhere.

     The slider offsets the head position with respect to its
initial position, which was read when the traffic light was
clicked to produce this "Station Unit #" frame.  Use the left
mouse button to click and drag the slider, or left click in the
gray area to move the slider by one micron per click, or click the
center mouse button in the gray area to jump the slider to that 
spot.  The "HeadPosition:" box is yellow while head motion is in
progress or red if the head servo failed to position as commanded.

     To try to recover from a problem, the "Refind" button sends a 
reposition request to the station unit:  A single click on "Refind" 
means reposition with respect to the original position; a double 
click means with respect to the current position.  The "Peak" 
button asks the tape drive to find the strongest signal within 
+|- 25.6 microns of the current head position. 

     "Remove" causes this tape to be removed from processing 
perhaps because it's faulty.  "Dismount" means a logical dismount, 
which tells the Station Unit not to use this tape for the present. 
Neither of these commands causes tape motion.  Do not confuse 
these with "Unload" or "Release" above. 

     Use the "Command:" box on the bottom line to send raw
commands to the tape drive and observe the responses, if any. 
These commands are documented elsewhere.

     Right click in a "Station Unit #" frame to close it.  
(If, instead, you ask your window manager to kill it, then it 
will probably come back from the dead.)  Click again on the 
corresponding traffic light to resurrect it.


---- "Streams" ---- 

     The traffic lights under "Streams" show the status of the
corresponding correlator task-streams or streams of tasks.  All
dark means that this stream is nonexistent or inactive.  A red
light means some error such as unable to carry out the last
command.  Yellow means holding or waiting for resources. 
Green means everything is OK as far as Opera can tell.

     Click on a "Streams" traffic light, regardless of its color,
to show a frame with more information about the corresponding
stream.

     Under the "Streams" traffic lights, the first row shows a 
numerical status, which is translated into words in the bottom 
box of each stream's frame.  The second row shows the stream's 
priority with 1 highest.  Double click on a stream's traffic 
light to promote this stream to first priority.

     The frames for streams 1, 2, and 3 start with lists of
available task-stream files (tsf) that could be used to start the 
stream.  To do this, first left click on the appropriate file 
name to transfer it, with its path, to the top (white) box in 
this frame.  Alternatively, type a file name into this box.
Then click "Open" to see the contents of this file, or click 
"Start" to send this file name and this command to Conductor 
with a starting line number, if any, set in advance by a left
mouse click and emphasized in darker gray.

     As the stream starts, in either case, this box shows a 
listing of the active task-stream file with the currently 
executing line emphasized in yellow.  The "Open" and "Start" 
buttons are replaced by a "Details" button, which brings up 
a Details frame (described below) showing only the SUs active 
for this stream.  The "Hold," "Break," "Resume," and "End" 
buttons send these commands to Conductor.  The "Resume" 
command includes also a line number, if any, set in advance 
by a left mouse click. 

     Right click in a "Stream #" frame to close it.  Click
again on the corresponding traffic light to resurrect it.

     The "Operator Stream" frame for stream 0 is a special case: 
It contains a mini-editor for a task file, opera.tsf, which can be 
edited and then submitted to Conductor with the "Save & Start"
button.  Left mouse click in this text box to enable typing and
editing therein.  This mini-editor does not save automatically: 
If you close the program or this frame without saving, you'll 
lose your work.  Right click in this "Operator Stream" frame to 
iconify it without losing your work; click again on the "O" 
traffic light to resuscitate it.


---- "Details" ---- 

     A single click on the "Details" button makes a frame showing 
additional information about each station unit and data channels 
to the correlator including their validity and status.  The column 
headings are: 
      SU = Station unit or tape-drive number, 0 to 15 
      SA = Station letter code 
      SR = Stream number, 0 to 3 
      CH = Channel number, 0 to 15 
      CN = Channel name 
      VA = Validity of channel coded as a color 
Below the SU, SA, and SR numbers is an SU status that is one of: 
Initialized, Configured, TapeMounted, Pos'ingTape, PeakingHeads, 
ValidVSN, FindingTOT, NoGoodTOT, FoundTOT, Syncing, 
Synced, and ScanDone.  Under these is the pass, the station unit's 
TOT and a recent ROT, and the stream's ROT, all converted to 
ddd|hh:mm:ss format for easy comparison. 

     The channel validity (VA) is color coded as follows:  Dark 
means inactive, not in use, or no data available, yellow means not 
synced, green means synced, red means under repair (i.e., broken) 
or delay buffer overrun, and blue means mixed track status.  These 
data are all updated periodically.

     Right click in a "Details" frame to close it.

     A double left click on the "Details" button that is between 
the traffic lights brings up also a "Status at Correlator" frame, 
which summarizes errors detected at the correlator.  Each row 
in this tabulation represents a single baseline channel or snake 
labeled by the two station units and the channel.  From left to right, 
the colored boxes represent errors detected in:  the station-unit 
identification, the channel identification, the correlator-frame 
number, the check sum, the input board link, and the input board 
synchronization.  (These last two will be common among the four 
channels of a channel group.)  Following the boxes for the second 
station unit of the baseline are four more colored boxes showing 
head tap past end, head tap three carries, tail tap past end, and 
tail tap three carries.  These last four are actual correlation 
errors.  These errors are color coded as follows:  Dark means 
unknown or not in use, green means less than 1% error rate, yellow 
means 1% to 10% error rate, and red means more than 10% errors.  
When the correlator is actually in use, these data are all updated 
periodically. 

     Right click in the "Status at Correlator" frame to close it.


---- "ERRORS!" ---- 

     Whenever Opera receives an error message, a frame labeled 
"ERRORS!" appears or reappears.  Each line of text in this frame 
represents one received error message with its error number, the
program that sent the message, and the message text.  Left click
on a line in this frame to spawn netscape, if necessary, with a 
multiline description with more details about the error. 

     Click "Bummer!" or right click in this frame to iconify it. 


---- Logging ---- 

     A separate program, not actually part of Opera, provides 
message logging.  From your window manager, get an xterm or 
hpterm to be used only for logging.  In this term, run the csh 
script largo.  This script first edits the message alias file, 
MesAlias, to append LOG@ to all active lines, which causes a 
copy to be sent to LOG of all messages that are sent to aliases
in this alias file.  Then largo starts the Log (LOG) program, 
which sends a one-line note to the screen and to the log file 
$TMP/mlog for each message that it receives.  Log also sends
a copy of the whole message (binary) to the binary log file 
$TMP/blog.  The last (hex) number on each line in the mlog 
file is the byte offset from the start of the blog file to the 
start of the corresponding binary message therein.

     Note that Log does not receive and cannot log any messages 
that are sent directly, that is without using an alias.

     To terminate logging, ^C (Ctrl-C) or whatever your term uses 
for interrupt in the log window.  The largo script then terminates 
Log and restores the alias file.  Whenever you restart the largo 
script, any previous contents of mlog and blog are saved in 
mlog.bak and blog.bak, but only once.


                                    Revised:  1999 November 22, JAB

