General Description of Fourfit Fringe Plots
-------------------------------------------

The fourfit fringe plot has a long history and the format continues to
be tweaked; but the basic idea is to capture on a single page everything
you want to know about each fringe fit.  Most experiments have multiple
sources and many stations, and the fringing is usually performed on the
individual baselines between stations for polarization products as the
user commands.  At the top of the page (bold) is the version of the
software used for the correlation and fringing as well as the source,
scan name, baseline and polarization product.  Below this is an 'executive'
summary of the observables and several plots: a combined delay-rate
and multiband-delay plot, a singleband delay plot and a cross-power
spectral plot.   Below this is a per-channel time history with indicators
of validity and phase calibrations (with corresponding observables below
in rather fine print).  Finally, the fit is made with reference to a model
of the earth rotation and all of the parameters associated with that are
printed in the block at the bottom.  Now for some details....

Observables: The principal ones are the SNR, correlation amplitude (x 10000)
and phase for the integration time correlated.  Heuristics are used to
comment on the 'quality' of the fringe (0 is lousy, 9 very good).  A
probability of false detection (PFD) is supplied; if it isn't 0, you 
probably don't have a fringe.  Also given are the residual single and
multiband delays as well as the fringe rate (these are all referenced
to the model).  Finally information about the scan and its processing
is also given.

Singleband Delay (green curve): this is the easiest to understand.
Fundamentally we are cross-correlating two signals that have been adjusted
for the geometric model so this should look like a delta-function if you
have a good correlation.  The height of the peak is the correlation amplitude.
Note that this is effectively an average over all channels.

Xpower (Cross-power) Spectrum: this is the fourier transform of the
singleband delay.  The blue trace is the amplitude as a function of
frequency and the red trace is the phase.  For a delta-function-like
cross-correlation, both traces should be flat.

Delay Rate and Multiband Delay: the delay rate is the red curve and the
multiband delay is the blue curve (note each has separate axis labels).
The delay-rate curve tells you how the mean delay changed over the scan;
typically it is somewhat ratty due to fluctuating atmospheric delays.
The multiband delay is constructed from the singleband phases for each
of the channels.  (A variation of phase with frequency is a delay.)  In
a well tuned system, the multiband delay provides a finer delay measurement,
but it is subject to ambiguities (i.e. multiples of 2pi in phase between
channels).  Note that fourfit does search in the 3 dimensions of singleband,
multiband and delay rate space, so the peaks of the delay rate and multiband
delay should also peak at the same amplitude as the singleband delay.

Channel plots: the individual frequency channels are labelled a..z A..Z 0..9
(and two additional characters).  Depending on the duration of the scan,
the time variation of the fringe is averaged over some number of AP
(integration periods used by the correlator for output time resolution).
In each channel there are thus amplitude and phase variations with time
in the scan (left-to-right in each channel) and the channels are deployed
in increasing frequency.  If there are issues with the recording (which
would vary with time) the validity bars (showing the fractional amount of
data present on a scale of zero to one) are colored red instead of green.
There is also a panel for the average amplitude and phase with time.  Below
these per-channel plots are the figures of merit for each box--the information
is mostly for tracking down problems and not really readable.  If phase cals
are employed (actual phase calibration measurements or a priori manual phase
adjustments) these are plotted in colors related two the two stations
(reference station in green, remote station in magenta).



